---
title: "FlowSOM: to analyze flow or mass cytometry data using a self‐organizing map"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Neural Network
  - Clustering
tags:
  - Theory
author_profile: true
mathjax: true
comments: true
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---

Backgroud
----------------------
FlowSOM(2015)<sup>[1]</sup> is one of the available algorithms for flow cytometry and high-dimensional data analysis. 

Flow cytometry is a technique which could detect and measure characteristics of many thousand cells or particles per second. The high‐dimensional flow cytometry data have made it possible to detect protein marker expression, allowing cell populations to be characterized in unprecedented detail. Briefly speacking, the first step is going to be a clustering problem for high-dimensional data and FlowSOM could be a solution.

According to Weber and Robinson(2016)<sup>[2]</sup>, FlowSOM "had extremely fast runtimes, making this method well‐suited for interactive, exploratory analysis of large, high‐dimensional data sets on a standard laptop or desktop computer."


Algorithm
---------------------------
FlowSOM analyzes flow or mass cytometry data using a self-Organizing Map (SOM). Using a two-level clustering and star charts, FlowSOM helps to obtain a clear overview of how all markers are behaving on all cells, and to detect subsets that might be missed otherwise.

The algorithm consists of four steps:

- reading the data
- building a Self-Organizing Map
- building a minimal spanning tree
- computing a meta-clustering

## Reading the data

The first step is actually a 



Reference
------------------
[1]Van Gassen, S., Callebaut, B., Van Helden, M.J., Lambrecht, B.N., Demeester, P., Dhaene, T. and Saeys, Y., 2015. FlowSOM: Using self‐organizing maps for visualization and interpretation of cytometry data. Cytometry Part A, 87(7), pp.636-645.
[2] Weber, L.M. and Robinson, M.D., 2016. Comparison of clustering methods for high‐dimensional single‐cell flow and mass cytometry data. Cytometry Part A, 89(12), pp.1084-1096.
